# 2. Add Two Numbers

## Problem Statement

You are given two non-empty linked lists representing two non-negative integers. The digits are stored in reverse order, and each of their nodes contains a single digit. Add the two numbers and return the sum as a linked list.

You may assume the two numbers do not contain any leading zero, except the number 0 itself.

### Example 1:
```
Input: l1 = [2,4,3], l2 = [5,6,4]
Output: [7,0,8]
Explanation: 342 + 465 = 807.
```

### Example 2:
```
Input: l1 = [0], l2 = [0]
Output: [0]
```

### Example 3:
```
Input: l1 = [9,9,9,9,9,9,9], l2 = [9,9,9,9]
Output: [8,9,9,9,0,0,0,1]
```

---

## Approach

We can use the `additive` property of numbers to solve this problem. We will traverse both linked lists simultaneously, adding the corresponding digits along with any `carry` from the previous addition. 

1. Initialize `dummy` nodes to help build the result linked list and a variable `carry` to keep track of any carry from the addition.

2. Traverse both linked lists until we reach the end of both lists. For each pair of nodes (or a single node if one list is shorter), calculate the sum of the values and the carry.

3. The new digit to be added to the result linked list will be `sum % 10`, and the new carry will be `sum / 10`.

4. Create a new node with the calculated digit and append it to the result linked list.

5. After the loop, if there is still a carry left, create a new node with the carry value and append it to the result linked list.

---

## Code Implementation

```java
class Solution {
    public ListNode addTwoNumbers(ListNode l1, ListNode l2) {
        ListNode dummy = new ListNode(0);
        ListNode temp = dummy;
        int carry = 0;
        
        while(l1 != null || l2 != null){
            int sum = carry;            
            if(l1 != null){
                sum += l1.val;
                l1 = l1.next;
            }                
            if(l2 != null){
                sum += l2.val;
                l2 = l2.next;
            }

            int sumToAdd = sum % 10;
            carry = sum / 10;
            
            ListNode newNode = new ListNode(sumToAdd);
            temp.next = newNode;
            temp = temp.next;        
        }        
        if(carry != 0){
            ListNode newNode = new ListNode(carry);
            temp.next = newNode;
        }
        return dummy.next;
    }
}
```

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(max(m, n)), where m and n are the lengths of the two linked lists. We traverse both lists once.

- **Space Complexity**: O(max(m, n)), where m and n are the lengths of the two linked lists. In the worst case, we might have to create a new linked list that is as long as the longer of the two input lists (plus one additional node if there is a carry at the end).

---