# 424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement

## Problem Statement

Given a string `s` that consists of only uppercase English letters, you can perform at most `k` operations on that string. In one operation, you can choose any character of the string and change it to any other uppercase English character.

Find the length of the longest substring containing the same letter you can get after performing the above operations.


### Example 1:

```
Input: s = "ABAB", k = 2
Output: 4
Explanation: Replace the two 'A's with two 'B's or vice versa.
```

### Example 2:

```
Input: s = "AABABBA", k = 1
Output: 4
Explanation: Replace the one 'A' in the middle with 'B' and form "AABBBBA". The substring "BBBB" has the longest repeating letters, which is 4.
```

---

## Approach

We need to find the longest substring that can be obtained by replacing at most `k` characters in a given string. We can use the sliding window technique to solve this problem efficiently.

1. We will maintain a sliding window defined by two pointers, `left` and `right`, which will represent the current substring we are considering. Also keep a `hashmap` to count the frequency of characters in the current window and a variable `maxFreq` to keep track of the maximum frequency of any character in the current window.

2. Traverse through the string using the `right` pointer. For each character at the `right` pointer, update its frequency in the `hashmap` and update `maxFreq` if necessary.

3. Check if the current window size minus `maxFreq` is greater than `k`. If it is, it means we need to shrink the window from the left until the condition is satisfied. This is done by decrementing the frequency of the character at the `left` pointer in the `hashmap` and moving the `left` pointer to the right.

4. Update the maximum length of the valid window at each step.


---

## Code Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int characterReplacement(string s, int k) {
        int n = s.length();
        int left = 0, right = 0, maxLen = 0, maxFreq = 0;
        unordered_map<char, int> mpp;

        while(right < n){
            mpp[s[right]]++;
            maxFreq = max(maxFreq, mpp[s[right]]);
            
            while(right - left + 1 - maxFreq > k){
                mpp[s[left]]--;
                if(mpp[s[left]] == 0) mpp.erase(s[left]);
                left++;
            }
            
            maxLen = max(maxLen, right - left + 1);
            right++;
        }
        return maxLen;
    }
};
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(n), where n is the length of the input string. We traverse the string once with the right pointer, and the left pointer also traverses the string at most once.

- **Space Complexity**: O(1), since the size of the character frequency map is limited to the number of uppercase English letters (26).

---