# 540. Single Element in a Sorted Array

## Problem Statement

You are given a sorted array consisting of only integers where every element appears exactly twice, except for one element which appears exactly once. Find this single element that appears only once.

### Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [1,1,2,3,3,4,4,5,5]
Output: 2
```

### Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [0,0,1,1,2,2,3]
Output: 3
```

---

## Approach

Since the array is `sorted`, we can use a binary search approach to find the single element in `O(log n)` time complexity.

If we look at the pairs of elements in the array, we can see that the first occurrence of each pair will be at an `even` index and the second occurrence will be at an `odd` index.

If there lies a `single` element in the array, it will `disrupt` this pattern.

For example, if the single element is at index `k`, then:

- If `k` is even, then the first occurrence of the pair will be at index `k` and the second occurrence will be at index `k + 1`.

- If `k` is odd, then the first occurrence of the pair will be at index `k - 1` and the second occurrence will be at index `k`.

Using this observation, we can perform a binary search to find the single element:

1. We will initialize two pointers, `left` and `right`, to the start and end of the array, respectively.

2. We will calculate the `mid` index and check if the element at `mid` is the single element by comparing it with its neighbors.

3. If the element at `mid` is not the single element, we will check the pattern of the pairs to determine whether to search in the left half or the right half of the array.


---

## Code Implementation

```java
class Solution {
    public int singleNonDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        int n = nums.length;
        int left = 0, right = n - 1;
        if(n == 1) return nums[0];
        if(nums[0] != nums[1]) return nums[0];
        if(nums[n - 1] != nums[n - 2]) return nums[n - 1];
        
        while(left <= right){
            int mid = left + (right - left) / 2;
            if(nums[mid] != nums[mid - 1] && nums[mid] != nums[mid + 1]) return nums[mid];
            if(mid % 2 == 0){
                if(nums[mid] == nums[mid + 1]){
                    left = mid + 1;
                }
                else{
                    right = mid - 1;
                }
            }
            else{
                if(nums[mid] == nums[mid + 1]){
                    right = mid - 1;
                }
                else{
                    left = mid + 1;
                }
            }
        }
        return -1;
    }
}
```  

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(log n), where n is the number of elements in the array. We are performing a binary search, which divides the search space in half at each step.

- **Space Complexity**: O(1), as we are using only a constant amount of extra space for the pointers and variables.

---
