# 6. ZigZag Conversion

## Problem Statement

Given a string `s` and an integer `numRows`, return the string formed by writing `s` in a zigzag pattern on `numRows` of rows and then reading the characters line by line.

### Example 1:

```
Input: s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 3
Output: "PAHNAPLSIIGYIR"
Explanation:
P   A   H   N
A P L S I I G
Y   I   R
```
### Example 2:

```
Input: s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 4
Output: "PINALSIGYAHRPI"
Explanation:
P     I    N
A   L S  I G
Y A   H R
P     I
```

---

## Approach

We are given an input string `s` and a number of rows `numRows`. We need to write the characters of the string in a zigzag pattern and then read them line by line to form the final output string.

So this is a observation + simulation problem. We can simulate the zigzag pattern by maintaining a list of `StringBuilder` objects, where each `StringBuilder` corresponds to a row in the zigzag pattern. We will iterate through the characters of the input string and append them to the appropriate `StringBuilder` based on the current row we are filling.

1. Maintain a variable `currRow` to keep track of the current row we are filling and a boolean variable `direction` to determine whether we are moving downwards or upwards in the zigzag pattern.

2. For each character in the input string, append it to the `StringBuilder` corresponding to `currRow`.

3. If we are at the top row (i.e., `currRow == 0`) or the bottom row (i.e., `currRow == numRows - 1`), we need to change the direction of movement.

4. After processing all characters, concatenate the contents of all `StringBuilder` objects to form the final output string.

---

## Code Implementation

```java
class Solution {
    public String convert(String s, int numRows) {
        int n = s.length();
        if(numRows == 1 || n < numRows) return s;

        List<StringBuilder> chars = new ArrayList<>();
        for(int i = 0; i < numRows; i++) chars.add(new StringBuilder());
        int currRow = 0; boolean direction = false;

        for(char ch: s.toCharArray()){
            chars.get(currRow).append(ch);
            if(currRow == 0 || currRow == numRows - 1) direction = !direction;
            currRow += direction ? 1 : -1;                        
        }

        StringBuilder res = new StringBuilder();
        for(StringBuilder ch: chars){
            res.append(ch);
        }
        return res.toString();
    }
}
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(n), where n is the length of the input string `s`. We iterate through the string once to build the zigzag pattern and then concatenate the results.

- **Space Complexity**: O(n), where n is the length of the input string `s`. In the worst case, we may need to store all characters in the zigzag pattern before concatenating them into the final result.

---