# 124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum

## Problem Statement

Given a non-empty binary tree, find the `maximum` path sum.

A `path` is defined as any sequence of nodes from some starting node to any node in the tree along the parent-child connections. The path must contain at least one node and does not need to go through the root.

### Example 1:
```
Input: root = [1,2,3]
Output: 6
Explanation: The optimal path is 2 -> 1 -> 3 with a path sum of 2 + 1 + 3 = 6.
```

### Example 2:
```
Input: root = [-10,9,20,null,null,15,7]
Output: 42
Explanation: The optimal path is 15 -> 20 -> 7 with a path sum of 15 + 20 + 7 = 42.
```

---

## Approach

We need to find the `maximum` path sum in a binary tree, where a path can start and end at any node.

To solve this problem, we can use a depth-first search (DFS) approach. We will define a recursive function that calculates the maximum path sum for each node in the tree.

The key idea is to calculate the `maximum path sum` that can be obtained by including the current node and either its left or right child (or neither). We will also keep track of the `maximum path sum` found so far.

1. We will define a helper function `calculateSum` that takes a node as input and returns the maximum path sum that can be obtained by including that node and either its left or right child.

2. In the `calculateSum` function, we will recursively calculate the maximum path sum for the left and right children of the current node.

3. We will then calculate the maximum path sum that can be obtained by including the current node and either its left or right child (or neither). This is done by taking the maximum of the left and right path sums and adding the value of the current node.

4. We will also update the `maxSum` variable to keep track of the maximum path sum found so far.

5. Return the maximum path sum that can be obtained by including the current node and either its left or right child (or neither) to the caller.

---

## Code Implementation

```java
class Solution {
    int maxSum;
    private int calculateSum(TreeNode root){
        if(root == null) return 0;
        int left = Math.max(0, calculateSum(root.left));
        int right = Math.max(0, calculateSum(root.right));
        maxSum = Math.max(maxSum, root.val + left + right);
        return root.val + Math.max(left, right);
    }

    public int maxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        this.maxSum = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
        calculateSum(root);
        return maxSum;
    }
}
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(N), where N is the number of nodes in the binary tree. We visit each node exactly once to calculate the path sums.

- **Space Complexity**: O(H), where H is the height of the binary tree. In the worst case, the height of the tree can be equal to the number of nodes (O(N)) in the case of a skewed tree, and in the best case (balanced tree), it would be O(log N).

---

