# 236. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree

## Problem Statement

Given a binary tree, find the lowest common ancestor `LCA` of two given nodes in the tree.

According to the definition of `LCA` on Wikipedia: “The lowest common ancestor is defined between two nodes `p` and `q` as the lowest node in `T` that has both `p` and `q` as descendants (where we allow a node to be a descendant of itself).”

### Example 1:
```
Input: root = [3,5,1,6,2,0,8], p = 5, q = 1
Output: 3
Explanation: The LCA of nodes 5 and 1 is 3.
```

### Example 2:
```
Input: root = [3,5,1,6,2,0,8], p = 5, q = 4
Output: 5
Explanation: The LCA of nodes 5 and 4 is 5, since a node can be a descendant of itself according to the LCA definition.
```

### Example 3:
```
Input: root = [1,2], p = 1, q = 2
Output: 1
```

---

## Approach

To find the lowest common ancestor of two nodes in a binary tree, we can use a recursive approach.

1. We start at the root of the tree and check if the current node is either `p` or `q`. If it is, we return the current node.

2. We then recursively search for `p` and `q` in the left and right subtrees of the current node.

3. If `both` the left and right recursive calls return a non-null value, it means that `p` and `q` are found in different subtrees of the current node. Therefore, the `current` node is the lowest common ancestor, and we return it.

4. If only one of the recursive calls returns a non-null value, it means that both `p` and `q` are found in the same subtree. Therefore, we return the non-null value from that subtree.

---

## Code Implementation

```java
class Solution {
    public TreeNode lowestCommonAncestor(TreeNode root, TreeNode p, TreeNode q) {
        if(root == p || root == q || root == null) return root;
        
        TreeNode left = lowestCommonAncestor(root.left, p, q);
        TreeNode right = lowestCommonAncestor(root.right, p, q);
        
        if(right == null) return left;
        else if(left == null) return right;
        else return root;    
    }
}
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(N), where N is the number of nodes in the binary tree. In the worst case, we might have to visit all nodes of the tree to find the LCA.

- **Space Complexity**: O(H), where H is the height of the binary tree. This space is used by the recursion stack. In the worst case, if the tree is skewed, the height can be equal to the number of nodes, leading to O(N) space complexity. However, in a balanced tree, the height would be log(N), leading to O(log(N)) space complexity.

---