# 543. Diameter of Binary Tree

## Problem Statement

Given the `root` of a binary tree, return the `diameter` of the tree.

The diameter of a binary tree is the length of the longest path between any two nodes in a tree. This path may or may not pass through the root.

### Example 1:
```
Input: root = [1,2,3,4,5]
Output: 3
Explanation: 3 is the length of the path [4,2,1,3]
or the path [5,2,1,3].
```

### Example 2:
```
Input: root = [1,2]
Output: 1
Explanation: 1 is the length of the path [2,1].
```

---

## Approach

What is the diameter of a binary tree? It is the length of the longest path between any two nodes in a tree. This path may or may not pass through the root.

So in order to find the `diameter` of a binary tree, we need to find the longest path between any two nodes in the tree.

How can we find the longest path between any two nodes in a binary tree? We can use a depth-first search (DFS) approach to find the height of the tree and update the diameter at each node.

The idea is to calculate the height of the tree at each node and update the diameter at each node. The diameter at each node is the sum of the heights of the left and right subtrees.

---

## Code Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int diameter = 0;
    
    int findHeight(TreeNode* root){
        if(root == nullptr) return 0; 
        int leftH = findHeight(root->left);
        int rightH = findHeight(root->right);
        diameter = max(diameter, leftH + rightH);
        return 1 + max(leftH, rightH);
    }

    int diameterOfBinaryTree(TreeNode* root) {
        findHeight(root);
        return diameter;
    }
};
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`, where `n` is the number of nodes in the binary tree. We visit each node once to calculate its height and update the diameter.

- **Space Complexity**: `O(h)`, where `h` is the height of the binary tree. This is the space used by the recursion stack. In the worst case (skewed tree), this can be `O(n)`, and in the best case (balanced tree), this can be `O(log n)`.

---