# 213. House Robber II

## Problem Statement

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected, and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police.

### Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [2,3,2]
Output: 3
Explanation: You cannot rob house 1 (money = 3) and then rob house 3 (money = 2), because they are adjacent houses.
``` 

### Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,1]
Output: 4
Explanation: Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).
``` 

### Example 3:
```
Input: nums = [0]
Output: 0
```

---

## Approach

The fundamental understanding of this problem is that it is a variation of the classic `House Robber` problem, but with a circular arrangement of houses. This means that the first and last houses are adjacent, and we cannot rob both of them.

To solve this problem, we can break it down into two separate cases:

- Case 1: Rob houses from the first house to the second-to-last house (i.e., `nums[0]` to `nums[n-2]`).

- Case 2: Rob houses from the second house to the last house (i.e., `nums[1]` to `nums[n-1]`).

**How do we rob the houses?**

At each index `i`, we have two choices:

1. Rob the current house and add its value to the maximum amount robbed from the houses up to `i-2` (since we cannot rob adjacent houses).

2. Skip the current house and take the maximum amount robbed from the houses up to `i-1`.

This way we can use dynamic programming to store the maximum amount robbed at each step and avoid redundant calculations.

i.e., `max_robbed[i]` = max(`max_robbed[i-1]`, `nums[i]` + `max_robbed[i-2]`) 

---


## Code Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int robHouses(vector<int> &nums){
        int prevOfPrev = 0, prev = nums[0];
        
        for(int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++){
            int curr = max(nums[i] + prevOfPrev, prev);
            prevOfPrev = prev;
            prev = curr;
        }
        return prev;
    }

    int rob(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        if(n == 1) return nums[0];
        
        vector<int> excludeFirst, excludeLast;
        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
            if(i != 0) excludeFirst.push_back(nums[i]);
            if(i != n - 1) excludeLast.push_back(nums[i]);
        }
        return max(robHouses(excludeFirst), robHouses(excludeLast));
    }
};
```

---

## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(n), where n is the number of houses. We are iterating through the list of houses twice (once for each case), and each iteration takes O(n) time.

- Space Complexity: O(n) for the auxiliary arrays `excludeFirst` and `excludeLast`. However, we can optimize this to O(1) by directly using indices to determine the range of houses to consider in the `robHouses` function.

---